•Whenever you select a food, you should try to choose ones that have low levels of sugar, salt and saturated fats. 
•It is important to remember that potatoes are classified as a starch, not a vegetable so they don’t count towards your five fruits and vegetables a day. 
•You should do your best to have fruits and vegetables of different colors as this is the best way to get a variety of vitamins and minerals. 
•When selecting your 5-a-day fruits and vegetables, try to choose 3 vegetables portions and 2 of fruits. This is crucial if you want to lose weight because vegetables tend to have fewer calories. 
•When you are selecting your starches, you should always try to get wholegrain pasta and rice. These foods take longer to digest which means you will feel full for more time and have energy for longer. 


Protein - try to eat foods in this group every day and make sure to include (150g) oily fish in your diet two times a week.
Dairy is essential because it is an excellent source of calcium as well as other proteins and vitamins.
Wholegrain starches even digest more slowly, making us feel full longer. 
a portion of fruits and vegetables is around 80 grams


Like saturated fats, avoid transfats (found in most processed foods), whenever possible


foods with a high glycemic index (simple sugars) spike your blood sugar faster,and may increase risk for several chronic diseases, like obesity and diabetes

Unsaturated fats include polyunsaturated fatty acids and monounsaturated fats. Both mono- and polyunsaturated fats, when eaten in moderation and used to replace saturated or trans fats, can help lower cholesterol levels and reduce your risk of heart disease

Unsaturated fats are typically liquid at room temperature, but saturated fats are solids.



Omega-3 fats have been shown to be protective against heart disease in a number of ways, including lowering blood triglyceride levels and blood pressure. Omega-3 fats are found in marine, animal and plant sources.

Fish and seafood are the best sources of omega-3

Omega-6 fat sources include:

Margarine spreads (use in place of butter to replace saturated fats)
Sunflower, soybean, sesame oils (use in place of lard, tallow, copha)
Nuts (such as walnuts, pecans, brazil and pine nuts)
Sunflower seeds.


Food sources of monounsaturated fats include:



 butter is often described as a 'saturated fat' because it has more saturated fatty acids than unsaturated fatty acids, while most vegetable oils are described as 'unsaturated fats' as they have more unsaturated fatty acids than saturated.


starchy foods are often referred to as 'carbs', this is a little misleading as carbohydrates include both starch and sugars, as well as fibre.
Starchy foods provide important nutrients to the diet including B vitamins, iron, calcium and folate. Starchy foods can also provide fibre which is needed for good digestive health and is associated with a lower risk of heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes and bowel cancer.

No more than 5% of our dietary energy should come from free sugars in our diet 

Adults should aim for 30 g of fibre per day


Low-GI foods in your healthy, balanced diet:

Choose basmati or easy cook rice, pasta or noodles or try plantain, quinoa or bulgur wheat for a change.
Eat wholemeal roti and include dhal (lentils) in your meals.
Use new potatoes instead of old potatoes – try sweet potatoes for a change.
Instead of white bread, choose granary, pumpernickel or rye bread.
Swap frozen chips for pasta or noodles.
Try porridge, natural muesli or wholegrain breakfast cereals instead of cornflakes or puffed rice cereal.





Olive oil
Canola oil
Peanut oil
Nuts
Avocados.




cooking

cooking can have an effect on calories :

1. heat breaks down collagen, making protein, fat (and non-calory nutrients) in meat easier to absorb
2. heat breaks down plant structue, making carbs and proteins easier to absorb
3. the easier it is to digest, less energy is used up in digesting it.
3. the easier it is to digest, the quicker calories are moved into the body and less are left for gut bacteria

